# Paint.NET Plugin API Documentation
This is the github repository for Paint.NET's Plugin API documentation: https://paintdotnet.github.io/apidocs/

**This file is not part of the plugin API documentation.** It is documentation for working on the documentation itself.

The API reference pages for namespaces, classes, structs, enums, etc. are automatically generated by [`docfx`](https://github.com/dotnet/docfx). However, you can contribute to the articles by editing them here in the repository.

## Editing directly on GitHub
_TODO_: Is this possible? I'm not familiar with it unless you're the owner of the repo and have direct repo access. There's a pencil icon when you go to view any file, it allows you to edit a text or markdown file.

**NOTE:** The `docs` directory is generated by the `build.cmd` batch file. Do not make edits in there, they will not persist.

## Local Editing
Editing articles shouldn't require you to build the docs, but you will need to build the docs when it comes time to submit a pull request.

You can edit Markdown files (*.md) in Visual Studio Code, which has live preview. Here's my workflow:
1. Open Visual Studio Code
2. File -> Open Folder, point it to the ApiDocs folder
3. Open up a .md file (like README.md or index.md or whatever) by double-clicking on it
4. To open the preview tab, press Ctrl+Shift+V (or right click on the tab and then on Open Preview)

## Local Building
You will need to temporarily edit `docfx.json` to point it at where you have the Paint.NET DLLs. Right now it's configured for where I (Rick) have the latest build of the portable x64 ZIP.

How to build the docs and get into a nice edit/build loop:
1. Run `restore.cmd`. It will install `docfx`. **You only need to do this once.**
2. Make sure you have already built Paint.NET in Visual Studio.
3. Run `build_and_serve.cmd`. It will build the docs (might take a few minutes!) and will then host the website locally so you can view it.
4. Make your edits
5. Go back to the console window where you ran `build_and_serve.cmd` and press Ctrl+C to kill it, then press Y for the "terminate batch file?" question.
6. If you made changes in the Paint.NET code, like adding or editing doc comments, make sure you do another Build -> Build Solution over in Visual Studio. docfx looks at the DLLs that are already built, it does not compile the code.
7. Go back to step 3.
